**1. What is the definition of Computer Science?**

The theory and practice of computation, computers, and human-computer interaction, which includes the fields of math, engineering, and psychology.

**2. What is the definition of I.T. and what does it stand for?**

I.T. stands for Information Technology, which is the use of computers and the internet to store and process data.

**3. What is the definition of Internet and what does it stand for?**

Internet stands for interconnected networks. It’s the global network of computers and related infrastructure that people use to send and receive information.

**4. What is the definition of O.S. and what does it stand for?**

Operating System. The basic set of instructions built into a computer that allows it to run other programs and accept user input.

**5. What is a chip and what does it do?**

Short for microchip, a tiny computer part made of silicon that can store or process data.

**6. What is a CPU, what does it do and what does CPU stand for?**

CPU stands for Central Processing Unit and it is the “brains” of the computer that retrieves, processes, and outputs data.

**7. What is a motherboard? What does it do?**

The main circuit board in the computer that has the CPU, RAM, expansion cards, and other components. It holds all these components together and allows different parts of the computer to communicate with each other.

**8. Inside your computer, what is the heat sink and what does it do?**

It absorbs the heat generated by the CPU so it doesn’t overheat.

**9. What is a database?**

Organized and searchable collection of information stored in a computer.

**10. What is a hard drive?**

The part of the computer that stores data long-term.

**11. What is RAM, what functions does it perform and what does it stand for? Why is it given that name?**

RAM stands for Random Access Memory. It’s the part in the computer that holds data while the computer is running so that the CPU can access it more quickly. The data disappears when the computer is turned off. It’s called Random Access because the computer can access any part of it randomly.

**12. What is bandwidth?**

The capacity of an internet connection to send and receive data. The greater the bandwidth, the more data can flow through it so the faster it is.

**13. What is the definition of CSS and what does CSS stand for?**

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets, which is a programming language used to manipulate the appearance of web pages. With CSS, you can make a change across all your web pages (like changing the font) by changing something in the style sheet.

**14. What is a Domain?**

A subset of the Internet that shares the same suffix (like .com, .edu, .gov).

**15. What is the definition of DNS and does DNS stand for?**

DNS stands for Domain Name System and it translates website names into IP addresses.

**16. What is a host (hosting)?**

A company that stores all the data for a website that it is hosting and makes the data available 24/7 on their server.

**17. What is the definition of HTML and what does it stand for?**

HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. It’s the main programming language used to create web pages. Markup means you can you can say how the text should appear, eg, headings in blue. Hypertext means you can click on the text (or other elements) on a web page and it will take you to another web page.

**18. What is the definition of HTTP and what does it stand for?**

Hypertext Transfer Protocol. Set of rules for how data is transferred on the Web.

**19. What is a mainframe?**

A large and powerful computer that can hold and process a lot of data, usually for a company or some other organization. Many computers can be connected to a mainframe.

**20. What is a search engine?**

A website used to search the Internet and display the results in a ranked order. Google is the best-known search engine.

**21. What is a server?**

A computer that is on 24/7 and provides access to data requested by other computers on its network or on the Internet.

**22. What is the definition of URL and what does it stand for?**

Uniform Resource Locator. The unique name of a website, its “address” on the internet.

**23. What is a web browser?**

Computer program that can display websites. Chrome, Safari, and Firefox are web browsers.

**24. What is the definition of algorithm?**

A sequence of logical, well-ordered steps for doing something.

**25. What is a network?**

A system of connected computers (and other hardware) that allows data sharing.

**26. What is the definition of a queue?**

A line of things or people waiting. In computing, data waiting to be processed.

**27. What does SPOOLing (spooling) stand for and what does it mean?**

Data that collects until there’s enough to be processed, as in a printer. I forget what it stands for.

**28. Inside a computer, what is a bus?**

Wires that connect components.

**29. What does USB stand for?**

Universal Serial Bus

**30. In computers, what is a hub?**

A computer in the middle to which other computers are connected in a network.

**31. What is the definition of LAN and what does it stand for?**

Local Area Network. A network of computers in close proximity to each other, as within a building.

**32. In computers, what is a client?**

A computer that requests information.

**33. What is the definition of DSL and what does it stand for?**

Digital Subscriber Line. It is a relatively fast way of connecting to the Internet using telephone lines.

**34. What is ethernet?**

A kind of cable used to connect computers in a network or the network made of such cables. 

**35. What is an IP address and what does the “IP” stand for?**

Internet Protocol. The unique sequence of numbers separated by dots that represents each computer or website. 

**36. What is modem short for? What does it mean?**

Modem is short for modulate/demodulate. It’s a device that allows connection to the internet through telephone lines by changing the signal coming in and going out of the computer.

**37. What is a router?**

A device that routes (sends) data where it needs to go in a network.

**38. What is fiber optics?**

A kind of cable made of flexible glass that allows data transfer at the speed of light. The fastest way to connect to the internet.

**39. What is HTTPS short for? What does it mean?**

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure. It means the website is using measures to make sure data transfer is safe from theft or other harm. 

**40. What is ISP? What does ISP stand for?**

Internet Service Provider. A company that provides access to the Internet for its customers.

**41. What is a JPEG? What does it stand for?**

Data format for digital photographs. Stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group.

**42. What is SSL? What does it stand for?**

A way to make websites secure. Secure Sockets Layer. 

**43. What is a cache?**

Data stored temporarily to make websites load faster.

**44. What is a plug-in?**

A small computer program you can add to software that extends its capabilities.

**45. In computers, what is the definition of buffer?**

A portion of the computer’s memory where data is held temporarily, allowing the CPU to manipulate the data before sending it to a device. To move data into a temporary storage area.

**46. What is business intelligence?**

Tools and systems for gathering and analyzing data to be used in business decision making, like market research.

**47. What is the definition of download?**

To make a copy of a file onto your computer from the Internet

**48. What is the definition of upload?**

To put a copy of a file onto the Internet

**49. What does phishing mean?**

A kind of scam designed to get you to give out your personal information that can be used to steal your identity or money.

**50. What is a VPN? What does it stand for?**

Virtual Private Network. A way of connecting to a private network over the Internet, using encryption and other security measures so that only authorized users can have access.

**51. How is a worm virus different than a trojan virus?**

A trojan virus is targeted to a specific computer and doesn’t replicate itself. A worm replicates itself as it goes from computer to computer to infect many computers.

**52. What is an API? What does it stand for?**

Application Programming Interface. It allows programs to “talk” to each other.

**53. What is blog short for?**

Web log.

**54. In computers, what is an interface?**

The part of the computer that users see and interact with, like the monitor.

**55. What is a node?**

A computer in a network.

**56. What is xml? What does it stand for?**

Extensible Markup Language. It’s a computer language that adds capabilities to websites.

**57. In computers, what is augmented reality?**

A technology that superimposes computer generated images and other data onto the real world when looking through the device.

**58. What is bit torrent?**

A system of peer-to-peer file sharing in which a file can be downloaded from many users in small parts to form a whole and where each downloader becomes a source for the file, so that the more users downloading, the faster the download speed.

**59. What does defragment mean?**

To make into a whole.

**60. What is a QR code?**

Quick Response code. A black and white image coded with data that when you scan it takes you to a website or give you info. A way to put links on physical objects.

**61. What does RSS stand for? What does it mean?**

It’s a way to subscribe to regularly updated content on websites (like news sites), without signing up for an email list, so new content comes to you instead of you having to go check each website for it. It stands for Rich Site Summary.

**62. What is a “base two” number system?**

Number system that uses only two numbers: 0 and 1. AKA binary.

**63. What is a “base five” number system?**

Number system that uses only the first 5 numbers: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.

**64. What is the definition of binary?**

Number system based on 1’s and 0’s. Computers are binary.

**65. What is the definition of bit? What is bit short for?**

Binary digit. 0 or 1. The smallest amount of data in the computer.

**66. What does GB stand for? What does it mean?**

Gigabyte. A billion bytes (a byte is 8 bits) or 2^30 which is close to a billion. Usually measures computer memory.

**67. Count to 25 using binary (write this out).**
```
0, 1, 10, 11, 100, 101, 
110, 111, 1000, 1001, 1010,
1011, 1100, 1101, 1110, 1111, 
10000, 10001, 10010, 10011, 10100,
10101, 10110, 10111, 11000, 11001.
```

**68. Translate the following binary numbers into decimal numbers:**
```
010 = 2
011001 = 25
011111 = 31
```

**69. Answer the following binary addition problems:**
```
  001 	  0110
+ 010   + 0010
_____   ______
  011     1000
```
**70. What is a BMP? What does it stand for?**

A file format for images. Bitmap. 

**71. What is a byte?**

8 bits. A unit of data measurement.

**72. What is source code?**

Original code as written by the programmer(s).

**73. In computers, what does initialize mean?**

To clear a disk or memory of previous data in preparation for use. In programming, to set variables to their starting values at the beginning of a program.

**74. In programming, what is a loop?**

A sequence of  instructions that continually repeats until a certain condition is met.

**75. In a programming language, what does syntax mean?**

Rules for how instructions are to be written.

**76. What is a software developer?**

Someone who designs, writes, and edits software (computer programs).

**77. What is SEO? What does it stand for?**

Search Engine Optimization. Ways to make a website appear higher on the list of search engine results.

**78. What does asynchronous mean?**

“Not with time.” Communication that is intermittent, not in one stream.

**79. What does bps stand for? What does it mean?**

Bits per second. How many bits are transferred in one second.

**80. What does Mbps stand for? What does it mean?**

Mega bits per second, or a million bits per second (actually 2^20). Usually measures internet speed.

**81. What does CRC stand for? What does it mean?**

Cyclic Redundancy Check. Code used for detecting errors that can happen during data transmission.

**82. What does a driver do in a computer?**

A program that communicates with an external device, like a printer.

**83. What is an SD Card? What does “SD” stand for?**

A small piece of flash memory used in handheld devices like camcorders. SD stands for Secure Digital.

**84. What is a high level language?**

Computer language that is closer to human language (English) so it is easier to read and write by humans.

**85. What is a low level language?**

Computer language that is closer to machine language so it is easy for computers to understand and process but harder for humans.

**86. What does a compiler do?**

Converts code written in high level language into low level language that the computer can understand and execute.

**87. What does an interpreter do?**

Translates code written in high level language into low level language, but does it one instruction at a time instead of converting the whole program before execution like a compiler.

**88. What does assembly language mean?**

Very low level language that is one step above machine language.

**89. What is object-oriented programming?**

An approach to programming based on things (data) rather than processes (action, logic).

**90. What does scripting language mean?**

Programming language that helps you write scripts -- sequence of instructions computer can execute without user initiation -- to automate processes.

**91. What does ASP.NET mean?**

A Microsoft web framework. A web framework is a set of tools and code library that helps you create websites.

**92. What does C# mean?**

A programming language created by Microsoft to compete with Java used to make websites

**93. What is JavaScript?**

One of the main programming languages used to make websites that makes them dynamic

**94. What is a column?**

Vertical arrangement of data

**95. What is a row?**

Horizontal arrangement of data

**96. What is a variable?**

Data that can change

**97. In computers, what is a gate?**

A part made of transistor(s) and inputs and outputs that can allow or not allow electricity to flow in a circuit. There are different kinds of gates that behave according to different rules (logic) according to how the gate is constructed.

**98. In computers, what does the clock do?**

Sends out a small voltage of electricity at regular intervals that tells the CPU when to do the next thing.

**99. What is the definition of Gigahertz?**

Billion hertz. Measures computer speed.

**100. What is the .NET framework?**

A set of tools for developing applications that run on Windows


